# FileTransfer

The main idea of this project was to transfer files between different devices without having to copy/paste files on usb drives. I chose to store the files on the system, because this was the most cheap and secure option compared to storing large amounts of files on a server elsewhere. I made each user upload their own files for security and functionality. 

When a user signs up, they are greeted with a button to upload files (which is a django form that passes the file to a view) and this uploades the file to the server. Then, it wil save in the database via a relationship to the user. The file is then saved in /media/uploads. The user can see all uploaded files on the main root and when one is clicked, it either shows the user the file if it is a previewable filetype or prompts to download it on the user's system. There is a delete button for each file that passes the id of the file stored in the database to a view that deletes the object from the db and deletes the physical file on the server. This results in the files to be deleted from the project. A file can be shared by sharing the link found in the url when you click on one as it accesses the stored file from the server which can be previewed by other users. 

I used bootstrap for the frontend as it offers a quick,easy and convenient way to style my html elements and it has good compatibility with django forms, for example. Having javascript on my frontend allows my project to make post requests to the backend to delete a file, for example. Using django to have views open gives me a easy way to create the endpoints and provide the basic functionality of uploading, deleting and user management.
